**How do we tell if what we are confronting is the aesthetic experience of an aesthetic object or simply a real object in the external world? If this is what we are working with, what are the basic criteria that form a good starting point for evaluating an artwork? Is it the signification? Beauty, perhaps? Who ascertains the aesthetic value/worth?**

This reminds me of a lecture that I had last year in Filipino Literature. Our prof (Sir Harvey) presented the question, "what is literature?" Our initial answers used specific definitions (e.g. the requirement of it having an intended message by the author), but were hit by counterarguments of things that fit the definition but were not considered to be literature (e.g. signage in EDSA would not be considered as literature). To cut a long discussion short, we came to one conclusion: literature is what people consider to be literature.

Love it or hate it, society plays a big role in what we would consider to be an "aesthetic" thing. If deconstructed enough, anything could be a real object in an external world. For example, what is a painting but simply a series of strokes of pigments on a fabric sheet?

One may make an argument that an aesthetic experience has to do with its intended depth or significance (in the sense of what you would see in traditional art), but that falls off apart really quickly when you start to explore what people think is "aesthetic". For example, there is the case of the "homeless chic" fashion style involving worn baggy clothing. Besides it being an absurd appropriation of a marginalized group, there is no rational motive for why people would find beauty in it. And yet they still find the aesthetic in it, as seen in this reddit post from years ago. (https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2rk2ax/this_homeless_guy_from_china_looks_badass/)

We don't really have a set definition of what constitutes as beauty, because society's definition of beauty changes all the time. Agnes Martin's "The Tree" may be of aesthetic quality in our modern age, but try to pass this off as art in the Middle Ages and you would be thrown into a dungeon for being a swindler or a lunatic (or both).

We can recall Danto and Dickie's Art as Theory & Institution (back in earlier lectures), where they said that there is a present dichotomy between art and household items (and that the same object can fulfill both roles) due to the presence of theory in the art world (as a social institution).

Art becomes art when it is defined as art.