**Why are humans incessantly propelled to design and/or create? And adding on to that: what do you think arises from this urgency to give body to ideas and concepts, with the objective of making the abstract palpable—one that can be touched, used, looked at, and in most cases, valued for its physical existence?**

True to the adage, I don't think that there would be a specific answer to this question because of how abstract the entire thing is. If you would personally ask every single artist why they make what they create, you would get vastly different answers.

Regardless, however, I do believe that all these reasons fall under either two umbrellas. The first of these two umbrellas is a simple enjoyment of the creation process. I would recall Ursula's "The Carrier Bag Theory of Fiction" and their opener about the free time that the mammoth hunters would have. *Boredom* is a strong human emotion and has had much influence in the world (think the phrase "idle hands are the devil's workshop"). From that boredom springs a desire to be engaged in something, *anything*.

Creation's potential to produce "the flow" (the psychological state of pure focus and enjoyment) in the creator plays an important part, as it transforms an otherwise unfulfilling, boring activity to something gratifying (and for many obsessive artists, addicting).

The second of the two categories is the expectation of the output's ultimate effect on the outside world, this may include the relationship between the output and other people. As said in Colomina and Wigley's "The Invention of the Human", we have a unique impulse for variability unseen in other animals - there is literally no evolutionary reason for this. It's a simplistic reason, but let's be honest --- wouldn't you want to show your creation and be proud of it?

Two different reasons, but both being purely human in nature.

On the subject of this topic, I would also like to point to the one-shot manga "Look Back" by Tatsuki Fujimoto (to Arielle: still waiting for your thoughts on it and Goodbye Eri if you've read them already! 😇). I interpret (at least part of) it as a reflection of Fujimoto's overall feelings towards drawing and manga as a medium.

I'm sure he would be blunt about it --- being a mangaka is a pain in the ass. There is the immense amount of effort needed to draw acceptable art, coupled with the need for the creation of an original engaging story while trying to keep up with strict deadlines. But he still continues to make manga regardless.

Without getting into spoilers, the two characters (to me) represent the two umbrellas of why people create in the first place - Kyomoto being the one driven by boredom while Fujino being one driven by how their output is received. Different reasons, but the same passion for art.