In the last century, rate of population increase has resulted more from reduction in death rates than increases in birth rates.

### Measuring Longevity:
- Life expectancy used to be shorter before the Industrial Revolution.
- This is because the people who died young skewed the mean to a lower value.
- Progressive increase in life expectancy through time.
### Factors in Human Longevity
##### Genetic Factors
- Genes can deliver certain traits that may be protective against fatal injuries, thus extending life
##### Environmental Factors
- Factors beyond genetics
##### Evolution
- Galor and Moav (2005): humans with genes for somatic investment have better chances of survival and reproduction
	- Somatic investment - the body allocates more sources towards enhanced immunity, DNA repair, etc.
	- Increased risk of death with increasing exposure (e.g. during transition to agricultural revolution)
##### Social Determinants
- Social animals live longer than solitary ones
- Living with our grandparents could lengthen our lives
### Common Causes of Death
##### 1900
- Pneumonia, Tuberculosis, Diarrhea, Diseases of the Heart, etc.
##### 2017
- Cardiovascular diseases, cancers, respiratory diseases
##### Inflammation
- Body's response to injury
- Acute inflammation is beneficial, but chronic inflammation is a diferent story
- Atherosclerosis - disease of the blood vessels; formation of plaques in arteries
	- plaque - hardened fat and calcium that causes heart attacks
### Science and Technology to Combat Diseases
##### Vaccines
- medical intervention where the body is exposed to weakened or killed pathogens to stimulate immunity
##### Prevention is the best strategy: Hygiene and Cleanliness
- Antiseptic practices (washing hands)
	- Availability of clean drinking water
##### Early Diagnosis
- Higher chances of survival when diseases are discovered at earliest stage
##### Healthy Lifestyle
- Food, physical state, environment 
##### The Future: Genetic Screening? Gene Editing?
- Gene detection or screening of genes that predict a high risk for certain diseases
- CRISPR can be used to treat genetic disorders before a child is born

### Has Quality of Life Improved?
