High-low distinction -> High art and low art as one - a duality
Perspective:
- High art is harder to digest than low art
What makes something low art and high art?
- Whether or not it is recognized by an institution?
- Its accessibility?
- The content?
- Commercial value?

How do we know that low art is tangible, rather than just theory (and more real than High art)?

We take a look at high art first to solidify low art.

How about accessibility: accessibility to the material or the understanding of that material?

For Fischer: Accessibility is the accessibility to IMMEDIATELY comprehend the artistic material (e.g. Campbell Soup Can - we can understand that it is the soup can immediately!)

Music is the highest - (in accessbility?) (referring to classical music though - no language, no ideas, just music, all banks on WILL - easy!)

Low art: Accessible under one condition - 

Uhaw - Ruben Abalos
- Criticized - no substance
- Begs the question: does porn need substance?
Art or Pornography (Nica)
- To be porn: body (and the sexual actions) should be photographed all for carnality (for sexual arousal, gratification)
- Art: May be explicit, but does it in an artful manner

Bomba Films
- popular during Martial Law
- soft-core pornography

If you remove porn from porn videos - what is left?
- So why were bomba films censored during Martial Law?
	- To maintain "Truth, Beauty, Goodness" as a nation

Truth, Beauty, Goodness
- Cultural Center of the Philippines -> to turn us more "refined"

CCP >:(
- Art for the masses?!?!?!??
- We must focus on low art to touch the masses
	- Not the priority of the CCP lol

Where do we go now from here?:


Questions to keep in mind:
- Take note of the audience
- Take note of their reactions
- Does the audience comprehend it?
- 